# react-tiny-link-app
A React frontend for the tiny link Spring API project. It allows users to transform long url into short ones

## Prerequisites

To make this application work, you need to have its backend running somewhere, and to configure it to connect to it. The backend is cors protected, so make sure to configure its frontend url to the one used by this application.

The backend is available at this url: https://github.com/DTADMI/spring-tiny-link-generator-api.git . Its READ.me file contains the necessary information to run it.

You also need node and npm installed, if you plan on playing with the code. We used node 21.4.0 for this application.
````
$ node -v
v21.4.0
````

## About the application

The requirements and assumptions for we went with are as follows:

* There is no need for authentication
* The user should be able to do the conversions in both directions
* The generated urls, domain excluded, should be 10 characters maximum
* The conversion should be idempotent
* The generated urls should be retrievable even after closing the application 
* The volume of data being stored in the DB being very important, there is no need no point in fetching all of it. Hence, for feedback on the storage, we'll display some previous conversions. We went with the mos recent ones.
* The application should present an error if the short url provided for conversion was not generated by the system
* We decided to also implement some for validation, to only allow real urls

### Architecture

We had the choice of language and framework for the frontend, and though we would have liked to go and almost went with some SSR by Next13, not being proficient enough was a hindrance and the learning curve could have jeopardized the time frame for the execution. We settled on React, compared to Angular, because it has an easier process of handling secret environment variables.

We decided to use shadcn ui as a library of component, as a proof of concept. It came with some challenge but the point was also to show that it is possible to generate a simple Ui design in a short time if the constraints are not too important.
We also tested the AI generation tool https://v0.dev/ , by Vercel, to generate the skeleton of this application, as well as a pre-made Error page, by https://tailwindcomponents.com/ . 

We decided to keep the architecture simple, thus most of the code is in one single file, containing two components. We still separated the service layer, for a cleaner code. 
We went with a simple form with two inputs for long and short url, separated by two buttons, to do the conversion in both directions.
As for the history display, we went with a second section on the right, with a form containing the paginated results of querying the most recent entries in the DB.

We entertained the idea of implementing a search and filter, but it turned out to be not indicated, as it would have required to either filter in the 10 results fetched, which would be less convenient than using the pagination, or to fetch all the data in the database to filter the required url, which not only would kill the performance, but is also pointless since the conversion is idempotent anyway.

We implemented an Error boundary that display the error page if a global exception is caught. It requires a routing to the home page, but we didn't implement it as we decided to keep the architecture simple and not have multiple routes and packages. "Maybe later..."

We used tailwindcss to organize the css, but also because it is needed by shadcn ui.

We used the native URL constructor as a url validation method, instead of using a regular expression, as it already exists, and allows to include local network urls like localhost:{port_number}

We went with a Toast element from shadcn ui to display the error messages.

The port and API url are configurable in the .env file. A .env.example file is provided as reference.

### Testing issue

We decided not to do TDD on this application, as it might have taken more time than that allocated. Hence, the tests also went into the "maybe later" list.

# Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
